I Not Stupid
{{Infobox film name = I Not Stupid image = I Not Stupid.jpg border = yes caption = Theatrical release poster director = Jack Neo producer = David Leong Chan Pui Yin writer = Jack Neo starring = Shawn Lee Huang Po Ju Joshua Ang studio = MediaCorp Raintree Pictures distributor = United International Pictures released =   runtime = 105 min country = Singapore language = Mandarin Chinese|Mandarin&nbsp;/&nbsp;Min Nan|Hokkien&nbsp;/&nbsp;English budget = Singapore dollar|S$1,000,000
}} Primary 6 directed by produced by Shawn Lee, Huang Po Ju and Joshua Ang. 
 satirical criticism Singaporean education system and social attitudes in Singapore sparked public discussions and parliamentary debates that led to reforms in the education system. Its sequel, I Not Stupid Too, was released in 2006.

==Plot== Shawn Lee) and Ang Boon Hock (洪文福 Hóng Wénfú; Joshua Ang). Terry, pampered and from a rich family, is a meek and obedient boy, with a domineering mother (Selena Tan) and a negligent businessman father (Richard Low).  Kok Pin is pushed to excel at school by his mother (Xiang Yun), but he shows a talent for art, not academics &mdash; much to the consternation of his family.  Boon Hock and his mother struggle to make ends meet by running a small wonton noodle stall; to make up for the lack of a father figure, he places high value on loyalty and "manliness" in his friends.

The boys are often bullied for being in the "stupid" stream, which eventually leads to a fight during which one of the bullies is accidentally injured.  In the principals office, Boon Hock and Kok Pin explain what happened, but Terry declines to help them and stand up for himself, following his mothers instructions to "mind his own business", which infuriates his friends and causes trouble between the boys.

Meanwhile, Terrys father, Mr. Khoo gets in a fight with a man who turns out to be Kok Pins father, Mr. Liu (Jack Neo), over a parking space.  Mr. Khoos company is a client for Mr. Lius firm, an advertising agency, and their new-found enmity causes Mr. Khoo to select the marketing campaign of John, an American expatriate, over that of Mr. Liu.  As Johns ideas are totally incompatible with Chinese customs, Mr. Khoos business suffers as his customers are driven away.

As the boys deal with their problems, a new teacher at school helps by inspiring Boon Hock to excel in Mathematics, while reaching out to the other boys.  Kok Pin continues to struggle, and enlists Boon Hock to help him cheat in the Preliminary examinations, but they are caught. Unable to face his mother, Kok Pin attempts suicide, but fails. When he finally tells her, she tries to punish him but collapses; a doctor later diagnoses her with leukaemia, and tells Kok Pin that she will die without a bone marrow transplant.
 PSLE Mathematics exam, while the other boys manage to scrape by &mdash; Kok Pin only marginally. Contrary to Kok Pins fears, his mother is satisfied because he has tried his best. When visiting Mrs. Liu at the hospital, the EM3 teacher announces that one of Kok Pins drawings won second prize in an international competition, but the moment is overshadowed by the rush to save Mrs. Lius life. Mr. Khoo passes the transplant test, but refuses to donate after discovering the intended recipient is his enemys wife. He eventually relents, but it is revealed that due to a mix-up Terry, not Mr. Khoo, is the suitable donor. Despite protests from his parents, he insists on undergoing the operation, which is a success. A grateful Mr. Liu offers to help Mr. Khoos business with his proposal. As a result, Mr. Khoos business booms, and the two enemies become good friends.  The film ends with Terry being bullied again, as in the beginning of the movie &mdash; but this time, he stands up for himself and fights back.

==Political satire==
I Not Stupid criticises many aspects of modern   mentality puts mounting pressure upon the protagonists of the film, confounding them as they attempt to improve their standing and ameliorate their reputation in a society which judges them "worthless". 
 Singapore governments efforts to convince Singaporeans that government policies and actions is in the best interests of the nation. Ciecko, Anne Tereska; Uhde, Jan and Uhde, Yvnone Ng (2006). Contemporary Asian Cinema. New York: Berg. pp. "Singapore: Developments, Challenges and Projections", pp. 81–82. ISBN 1-84520-237-6.    Kenneth Paul Tan (2008), "Cinema and Television in Singapore", Brill Publishers, pg 164-168.  Mrs. Khoo also uses her position of power to buy off rebellion in her charges with gifts and bribes, in a pointed criticism of the governments social policies.   Other characters in the film comment on this relationship &mdash; for instance, in one scene, Mr. Liu states that "it is difficult to catch fish in Singapore, because fish in Singapore are like Singaporeans; theyll never open their mouths", poking fun at the Singaporean trait of obedience and respect for authority. 
 Western expatriates as inherently superior to local workers), suicide, the use of Singlish, and the differences between English and Chinese. "I Not Stupid but is clever, really", New Straits Times, 19 September 2004.   

==Production==
Jack Neos   that streaming places on students. " ", www.lovehkfilm.com 
 script &mdash; checking scenes for accuracy, verifying facts, and drafting dialogue.  Altogether, the work went through thirteen different revisions, and saw over 50 children audition for the lead roles,  before Neo decided to send I Not Stupid into production. 

This production was carried out by   as executive producer,  , which was sung by Chen Guorong. The actual filming took place at Braddell Westlake Secondary School and Westlake Primary School over a period of 24 days,  and the film found distribution through Raintree Pictures and United International Pictures. 

==Reception==
I Not Stupid earned just S$46,000 during a limited sneak preview run, prompting Raintree Pictures to embark on a massive publicity campaign, including invitations for teachers to discuss the film. After showing for four months on 30 screens the movie earned S$3.8 million,  becoming the second-highest grossing Singaporean movie after Money No Enough.  Following its success in Singapore, I Not Stupid was released in Malaysia, Hong Kong,  Taiwan and mainland China. The movie also screened at the Pusan International Film Festival,  Tokyo International Film Festival,  the Jakarta International Film Festival and the 2005 Singapore Season cultural exhibition in London.  Over 50,000 VCDs of I Not Stupid were sold and its sole distributor, VideoVan, declared it the "No. 1 selling VCD in Singapore". This claim was disputed by Alliance Entertainment, which said that 70,000 VCDs of Money No Enough were sold, but VideoVan called the comparison inaccurate, as Money No Enough was a mature title, rather than a new release. 
 Singapore censors actually allowed this film through in the first place". 
 Ministry of Education decided to merge the EM1 and EM2 streams, and on 29 September 2006, it announced that the EM3 stream will be scrapped by 2008. 

==References==
 

==External links==
 
* 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 