Precious (film)
{{Infobox film
| name = Precious
| image = Precious2009poster.jpg
| caption = Theatrical release poster
| director = Lee Daniels Lee Daniels|Gary Sarah Siegel-Magness Oprah Winfrey|Tom Tyler Perry Lisa Cortés|}}
| screenplay = Geoffrey S. Fletcher
| based on =  
| starring = Gabourey Sidibe MoNique Paula Patton Mariah Carey Sherri Shepherd Lenny Kravitz
| music = Mario Grigorov
| cinematography =  
| editing = Joe Klotz Lee Daniels Harpo Films 34th Street Films
| distributor = Lionsgate
| released =  
| runtime = 110 minutes 
| country = United States
| language = English
| budget = $10 million 
| gross = $63,647,833 
}}
Precious (full title: Precious: Based on the Novel "Push" by Sapphire)   is a 2009 American drama film, directed and co-produced by Lee Daniels. Precious is an adaptation by Geoffrey S. Fletcher of the 1996 novel Push (novel)|Push by Sapphire (author)|Sapphire. The film stars Gabourey Sidibe, MoNique, Paula Patton, and Mariah Carey. This film marked the acting debut of Sidibe.

The film, then without a distributor, premiered to acclaim at both the 2009   announced that he and  .    Precious was also an official selection at the 62nd Cannes Film Festival (particularly the un certain regard section).

Lionsgate gave the film a limited release in North America on November 6, 2009 (the release was expanded on November 20). Precious received largely positive reviews from critics; the acting, the story, and its message were generally praised. In the films opening weekend in limited release, it grossed $1.8&nbsp;million, putting it in 12th place at the box office. As of February 2010, the film had grossed over $47&nbsp;million domestically, ranking no. 65 for 2009, recouping its $10&nbsp;million budget, and making it a box office success. 
 Best Picture, Best Adapted Best Supporting Actress, for which she received a standing ovation at the ceremony, along with numerous other accolades.

==Plot==
  Section 8 tenement and survives on American welfare state|welfare. Her first child, "Mongo" (short for Mongoloid), has Down syndrome and is being cared for by Precious grandmother, though Mary forces the family to pretend that Mongo lives with her and Precious so she can receive extra money from the government. When Precious second pregnancy is discovered, her high school principal arranges for her to attend an alternative school, where she hopes Precious can change her lifes direction. Precious finds a way out of her traumatic daily life by escaping into daydreams. In her mind, she has created an alternate world where she is loved and appreciated.

Inspired by her new teacher, Blu Rain (Paula Patton), Precious finally learns to read and write. She meets sporadically with social worker Ms. Weiss (Mariah Carey), who learns about incest in the household when Precious reveals who fathered her children. While Precious is in the hospital giving birth to her second child, Abdul, she meets John McFadden (Lenny Kravitz), a nursing assistant who shows her kindness. After her mother hits her and deliberately drops 3-day-old Abdul, Precious fights back and flees her home with Abdul. As they set out, she stops at a church window and watches the choir singing a Christmas hymn inside, imagining that she and her fantasy boyfriend are together and singing a more upbeat version of the song. Precious breaks into her school classroom because it is cold and she has nowhere to go. After Blu discovers her the next morning, she frantically calls local shelters looking for a safe place for Precious to stay. Later that night, Precious stays with Blu and her live-in partner (leading Precious to speculate that Blu is a lesbian). The next morning, Ms. Rain takes her and Abdul to find assistance for them. She tells Precious that she will be able to continue her schooling while she raises Abdul in a halfway house.
 GED test to receive a high school diploma equivalency.

==Cast==
  in 2008. Daniels stated he cast her as Ms. Weiss based on her performance in that film.]]
* Gabourey Sidibe as Claireece "Precious" Jones. The films casting director, Billy Hopkins, found her at an open-call audition held at New York Citys Lehman College. Sidibe was chosen over 300 others who auditioned in nationwide casting calls    and had no prior acting experience. 
* MoNique as Mary Lee Johnston, Preciouss verbally and physically abusive mother.    MoNique and Daniels had previously worked together in Shadowboxer (in which her character was named Precious).
* Paula Patton as Ms. Blu Rain, Preciouss alternative-school teacher.    Patton said that her character teaches Precious to "learn and read and write from the very beginnings, and pushes her to believe in herself, and pushes her to realize that anything is possible." 
* Mariah Carey as Ms. Weiss, Preciouss social worker who supports her during her struggles. In September 2008,     Carey described her character as "not really a likable person, but she does bring this to the surface."     Carey and Daniels had previously worked together on Tennessee (film)|Tennessee.  Daniels said that he cast Carey because he was "so impressed" by her performance in Tennessee.  According to director Daniels, Helen Mirren, who starred in his previous film Shadowboxer, was originally set to play the part of Ms. Weiss, but obtained a role in a "bigger project." 
* Lenny Kravitz as Nurse John McFadden, a nurse who shows kindness to Precious.     This film is Kravitz feature film acting debut. 
* Sherri Shepherd as Cornrows
* Nealla Gordon as Mrs. Sondra Lichtenstein
* Stephanie Andujar as Rita Romero, a 16-year-old former heroin addict and prostitute, who attends the same alternative school in Harlem as Precious and later befriends her.  During Andujars audition, Daniels was so impressed that he interrupted her dialogue and stated, "I want you in my movie."    
* Chyna Layne as Rhonda Patrice Johnson
* Amina Robinson as Jermaine Hicks
* Xosha Roquemore as Jo Ann
* Aunt Dot as Tootsie, Marys mother and Preciouss grandmother. Aunt Dot is the real-life aunt of director Lee Daniels. 
* Angelic Zambrana as Consuelo
* Quishay Powell as Mongo
* Grace Hightower as Social Worker
* Kimberly Russell as Katherine
* Bill Sage as Mr. Wicher; Sage had co-starred with Carey in Glitter (film)|Glitter, as well as previously working with Daniels on Tennessee.
 Sapphire (the author of the novel) makes a cameo appearance as a woman at a daycare center near the films end.   

==Production==
Precious was directed by  , Tom Heller, Tyler Perry, Lisa Cortes, Gary Magness, Valerie Hoffman, Asger Hussain, Mark G. Mathis, Andrew Sforzini, Bergen Swason, Simone Sheffield and Sarah Siegel-Magness.  Principal photography (filming) for the film took place on location in various parts of New York City.    The production budget was $10&nbsp;million. 

After Precious was screened at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival in January, it was picked up for distribution by Lions Gate Entertainment and received promotional assistance from Oprah Winfreys Harpo Productions and Tyler Perrys 34th Street Films.    Precious was the first theatrical film to be affiliated with Perrys company.    In February 2009, Lionsgate and The Weinstein Company filed lawsuits contesting ownership of the rights to release Precious.    Both companies claim that they had purchased distribution rights to Precious: The Weinstein Company claimed that they had "secured" their rights while Lionsgate stated that they owned the rights to the films distribution in North America.  Precious  sales agent Cinetic Media denied Weinsteins claims, stating that they failed to finalize the deal. 

==Music==
 
  LaBelle (Nona Hendryx, Sarah Dash, and Patti LaBelle), Donna Allen, Jean Carn, Sunny Gale, and MFSB. 

Lionsgate, in association with Matriarch/Geffen Records released the soundtrack online as a digital download on November 3, 2009,    and in stores on November 23.   Daniels confirmed that there are plans to release Bliges "I Can See in Color" as a single from the soundtrack.    The song was written by Blige, Raphael Saadiq and LaNeah Menzies and is produced by Raphael Saadiq.  People Magazine Daily noted that the film "mainly had a music supervised soundtrack, but not much of a score, so there were popular songs placed in the movie."  Peter Travers, of Rolling Stone, described "I Can See In Color" as being "a knockout song...expressing the goal of Precious to see the world in color."    

==Release==

=== Marketing ===
  62nd Cannes The Wrestler and Slumdog Millionaire; both films later were nominated for multiple Academy Awards, and Slumdog itself won Best Picture at the 81st Annual Academy Awards. 
 on her in her her satellite-radio I Can Do Bad All By Myself in September 2009. 

===Box office===
Precious was given a limited-theatrical release on November 6th, 2009, and was originally scheduled to appear on screens only in North America. Due to the mature subject matter of the film, it was rated "R" by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) in the United States, specifically for strong depiction of "child abuse including sexual assault, and pervasive indecent language".  During its opening weekend, the film earned $1,872,458, which placed twelfth on that weekends box office list, despite being in only 18 theaters.     The film saw a 214 percent increase in its second week of release, earning $5,874,628 at 174 theaters, which catapulted it up to third place in that weekends box office, with a per-theater average of $33,762.    On November 20, 2009, the film received a wider release, showing at 629 theaters (thus tripling the number of theaters showing the film).  In its third week, Precious, as studios had previously estimated, placed sixth at the box office, with the revenues estimated $11,008,000 an 87.4% increase from the previous week. 

After riding that three-week wave of success, Precious began to see a decrease in box office earnings. However, the film holds the record as the highest grossing picture to open in fewer than 100 theaters, and holds the record for the highest grossing average per screen for films shown in fewer than 50 theaters.  Brandon Grey of Box Office Mojo described Precious as having had a "robust expansion" in its second week of release, and he confirmed that the film holds the record for having the second-highest grossing weekend for a movie playing at fewer than 200 sites, behind only Paranormal Activity.  Precious grossed a total of $40,320,285 in over six weeks of release.  The film opened at ninth place in the United Kingdom, with revenues totaling £259,000 in its opening weekend from a limited release of 47 cinemas, generating a £5,552 screen average. 

=== Home media ===
The film was released on DVD-Video and Blu-ray Disc formats on March 9, 2010, reaching number one on the top DVD sales chart in the United States with 1.5 million DVDs sold in its first week of release.  It also reached the top position on the rental charts for iTunes and Amazon.com.   

==Reception==

===Critical response=== SAG Award, BAFTA and an Academy Award.]] rating average normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from film critics, gave the film a rating score of 79 based on 36 reviews, indicating "Generally favorable reviews."   

John Anderson, of Variety (magazine)|Variety, said "to simply call it harrowing or unsparing doesn’t quite cut it," having felt that the film is "courageous and uncompromising, a shaken cocktail of debasement and elation, despair and hope."    Anderson cited Careys performance as "pitch perfect" and Pattons role as Ms. Blu Rain as "disarming."  Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly, praised Careys performance, describing it as having been "an authentically deglammed compassion" and praised the film for capturing "how a lost girl rouses herself from the dead" and for Daniels showing "unflinching courage as a filmmaker by going this deep into the pathologies that may still linger in the closets of some impoverished inner-city lives."  Gleiberman described the film as being a movie "that makes you think, There but for the grace of God go I.   Its a potent and moving experience, because by the end you feel youve witnessed nothing less than the birth of a soul" and felt that the "final scene of revelation" between Sidibes and MoNiques characters was strong enough to be able to leave viewers "tearful, shaken,   dazed with pity and terror."    He identifies how Daniels uses one of the rich scenes created by Fletcher to position MoNique in a painful confrontation with Sidibe that results in a masterful and thought-provoking performance that delivers the final "push" needed by Sidibe: "The more Precious tries to get away from her mother, the more shes pulled back". 
 casting the actors for their names, "he was able to see beneath the surface and trust that they had within the emotional resources to play these women, and he was right."    Betsey Sharkey, of the Los Angeles Times describes the film as being a "rough-cut diamond...   rare blend of pure entertainment and dark social commentary, it is a shockingly raw, surprisingly irreverent and absolutely unforgettable story."  Claudia Puig, of USA Today says that while there are "melodramatic moments" in the film, the cast gives "remarkable performances" to show the audiences the films "inspiring message."    Peter Travers, of Rolling Stone called MoNique "dynamite," a performance that "tears at your heart."   

Mary Pols of Time (magazine)|Time praised the films fantasy sequences for being able to show the audience a "joyous Wizard of Oz energy" that is able to "open the door into Preciouss mind in a way even   Sapphire couldnt."  Pols felt that, while not implying that the film has "a lack of compelling emotional material" but that the films "few weak moments" are the "ones that dovetail with typical inspirational stories."    Marshall Fine, of The Huffington Post, praised the film as being "a film that doesnt shy away from the depths to which human beings can sink, but it also shows the strength and resilience of which we are capable, even at our lowest moments."    Scott Mendelson, also of The Huffington Post, felt that when you put the "glaring issues aside," the film "still works as a potent character study and a glimpse inside a world wed rather pretend does not exist in America." But while the film "succeeds as a powerful acting treat and a potent character study, there are some major narrative issues that prevent the film from being an accidental masterpiece."    Mendelson described the film as being "an acting powerhouse" based on its many emotional themes. 

Critic Jack Mathews wrote: "Without being familiar with the source material, you really have no idea how much work went into the adaptation or how well it was done.... Precious: Based on the Novel Push by Sapphire... First-time screenwriter Geoffrey Fletcher did yeomans work turning Sapphires graphic, idiomatic novel into a coherent and inspiring story about the journey of an abused Harlem teenager." 

Erin Aubry Kaplan writes on Salon.com that the question posed by the film is how to assess the "hopeless story of a ghetto teen... in the Age of Obama." She goes on to say that "Precious proves you dont always have to choose between artistic and commercial success; the films first opening weekend was record-breaking. Its a sign how much we needed to tell this story. And, perhaps, how many stories there are left to tell." 

A. O. Scott identifies the scripts precise use of force and adept use of language, including a memorable line created by Fletcher for the adaptation: a "risky, remarkable film adaptation, written by Geoffrey Fletcher, the facts of Preciouss life are also laid out with unsparing force (though not in overly graphic detail). But just as Push achieves an eloquence that makes it far more than a fictional diary of extreme dysfunction, so too does Precious avoid the traps of well-meaning, preachy lower-depths realism. It howls and stammers, but it also sings...Inarticulate and emotionally shut down, her massive body at once a prison and a hiding place, Precious is also perceptive and shrewd, possessed of talents visible only to those who bother to look. At its plainest and most persuasive, her story is that of a writer discovering a voice. These people talked like TV stations I didnt even watch, she remarks of Ms. Rain and her lover (Kimberly Russell), displaying her awakening literary intelligence even as she marvels at the discovery of her ignorance." 
 Dana Stevens of Slate disagrees with Gleibermans suggestion that the "film makes you think" and argues that the films "eagerness" to "drag" the audience "through the lower depths of human experience" leaves little space for independent "conclusions". Stevens noted that while the film is about improvement and self-actualization, "it wields an awfully large cudgel" in contrast to Scotts view of balance: "unsparing force (though not in overly graphic detail)". Perhaps sharing Mathews view regarding the daunting challenge of adapting the harsh story of Push, Stevens observes that "Daniels and Fletcher no doubt intended for their film to lend a voice to the kind of protagonist too often excluded from American movie screens: a poor, black, overweight single mother from the inner city." 
 Dana Stevens of Slate felt that the films "eagerness" to "drag" the audience "through the lower depths of human experience" leaves the audience "with no space to be able to come to their own conclusions."  Stevens noted that while the film is about improvement and self-actualisation, "it wields an awfully large cudgel."   
Peter Bradshaw wrote in The Guardian that the film catalogues a "horrendous, unending nightmare of abuse" and then abruptly turns into something resembling Fame (1980 film)|Fame. Bradshaw commended the films acting and energy but said it was not quite the "transcendent masterpiece" some had made it out to be. 
Sukhdev Sandhu said in The Daily Telegraph that he found the film "a dispiriting mix of cliché and melodrama," although he acknowledged that the film does feature some superb acting. 
 John Waters camp in the vein of Waterss Female Trouble. 

===Accolades===
 
Precious received dozens of nominations in award categories, including six Academy Award nominations, not only for the film itself but for the casts performances, the direction and cinematography, and the adaptation of the novel to the screenplay. Director Lee Daniels won the Peoples Choice Award, an award given by audience members at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival.  Daniels won both awards for which he was nominated at the San Sebastián International Film Festival—the TVE Otra Mirada Award and the Audience Award. He was also nominated in the category of Bronze Horse at the Stockholm Film Festival,    and won the Best Feature Film Award at the Hawaii International Film Festival. 

Precious received five awards at the 2009 Independent Spirit Awards (ISA) in the categories for Best Film, Best First Screenplay, Best Direction, Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress.   

Precious received nominations from the 67th Annual Golden Globes for the film and for the performances of MoNique and Sidibe; MoNique won Best Supporting Actress.   
 2009 Screen Actor Guild Awards: Best Cast, Best Actress, and Best Supporting Actress (in which MoNique won).   
 BAFTA awards in several categories, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Editing, Best Leading Actress (Gabourey Sidibe), and Best Supporting Actress (MoNique).   
 GLAAD Media Award for "Outstanding Film - Wide Release" during the 21st GLAAD Media Awards. 

==See also==
 

* 2009 in film
* Cinema of the United States
* List of American films of 2009

==References==
 

==External links==
 
*  
*  
*  
*  
*  
*  
*   at the Sundance Film Festival website

 
 
{{Succession box
| title= 
| years=2009
| before=Frozen River
| after=Winters Bone}}
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 