The Wolfman (2010 film)
{{Infobox film
| name           = The Wolfman 
| image          = Wolfman-final-small.jpg
| caption        = Theatrical release poster
| director       = Joe Johnston
| producer       = Scott Stuber Benicio del Toro Rick Yorn Sean Daniel
| screenplay     = Andrew Kevin Walker David Self
| based on       =  
| starring       = Benicio del Toro Anthony Hopkins Emily Blunt Hugo Weaving  
| music          = Danny Elfman Shelly Johnson
| editing        = Dennis Virkler Walter Murch Mark Goldblatt (Uncredited)
| studio         = Relativity Media Stuber Pictures Universal Pictures
| released       =  
| runtime        = 103 minutes (Theatrical) 119 minutes (Extended)
| country        = United States
| language       = English
| budget         = $150 million   
| gross          = $139,789,765 
}}
 1941 film Lawrence Talbot Rick Baker.

Acclaimed director Mark Romanek was originally attached to direct the film with the idea to "...infuse a balance of cinema in a popcorn movie scenario."  However, creative disagreements between the studio forced him to depart from the project. Despite the project being left with no director, the planned filming schedule did not halt. Four weeks prior to filming, Universal hired Joe Johnston to direct the film. Although Johnston convinced the studio he could shoot the film in under 80 days, the film suffered a troubled production with rewrites, reshoots, reedits, the switch of music composers, all factors that forced the studio to push back the films release date multiple times from its original November 2008. 

The film was released in the United States on February 12, 2010.  The film was met with a mixed to negative reception from critics and failed to make back its budget from the box office. Amongst the criticism pointed out by critics was the films obvious troubled production reflected within the films editing, directing, acting, and screenplay while some praised the films dark melodic tone and atmosphere, its Victorian era set pieces, Danny Elfmans moody/eerie Eastern European-esque score and Bakers werewolf make-up effects which earned him an Academy Award for Best Makeup, along with make-up effects supervisor Dave Elsey.

==Plot==
 

In 1891, Ben Talbot is confronted by a fierce unknown creature in the Blackmoor woods. He tries to escape, but is killed by the beast.
 Shakespearean actor, flashbacks as he tours his familys home. It is revealed that his mother, Solana, had committed suicide when he was a boy. Lawrence saw his father standing over her dead body, after which Lawrence was sent to an insane asylum in London, ostensibly for suffering delusions.

Lawrence visits the gypsies during a full moon. The local townspeople raid the camp to confiscate a dancing bear they believe is the killer, but a werewolf suddenly attacks, slaughtering many people. Lawrence is savagely bitten by the creature before it is chased off by the local hunters. A gypsy woman named Maleva sutures his neck wounds, but her daughter insists the now cursed Lawrence should be killed before he destroys other lives. Maleva refuses, saying he is still a man and that only a loved one can truly release him.  
 Inspector Aberline Hamlet and Macbeth (character)|Macbeth. Worried about what might happen, Lawrence sends Gwen away to London for her own safety. He follows his father to his mothers crypt, where Sir John locks himself in a room alone as he gives a cryptic warning to Lawrence. Lawrence then undergoes a transformation into the Wolfman before running off into the woods and killing the hunters stationed there. 

The next day, Aberline and the police arrest a bloodied, now-human Lawrence. Taken to the same asylum he was committed to as a child, Lawrence is subjected to torturous treatments overseen by Dr. Hoenneger. Sir John visits Lawrence and explains that many years before while hunting in India, he was bitten by a feral boy infected with lycanthropy. Lawrence realizes his father, as a werewolf, killed both his mother years ago as well as his brother. It is implied during the conversation that Sir John has become enamored of Gwen, and resented the fact that she would leave with Ben after their wedding. The wolf inside of him saw Ben as competition for her affections, which is something he has come to accept as having no control over. Knowing that Lawrence would never be believed, he now feels it necessary to confess before leaving his son at the asylum permanently.

Dr. Hoenneger conducts an evening lecture with Lawrence as a case study. He tells Lawrence that he is only a werewolf in his imagination, and seeks to prove it by putting him on display during the full moon. As the full moon streams through the window, Lawrence transforms into the Wolfman (much to the shock of everyone present) and kills Hoenneger. Pursued by Aberline, the Wolfman goes on a bloody rampage throughout the lecture hall and then the streets of London. The next day, the now-human Lawrence goes to Gwens antique shop for help. They realize they are falling in love and share a passionate kiss. Aberline arrives and searches the shop, but Lawrence has already escaped and returned to Blackmoor. 

Lawrence arrives at Talbot Hall and finds Singhs mutilated body. He loads a gun with Singhs silver bullets, but when he attempts to shoot his father, he learns that Sir John had secretly removed the powder from the cartridges years ago. When the full moon rises, both transform into werewolves. A vicious fight erupts, and the house is set on fire. Lawrence finally kills his father, but Gwen arrives hoping to save Lawrence, followed by Aberline, who attempts to shoot the Wolfman. Gwen disrupts the shot and flees with Aberlines revolver. The Wolfman bites Aberline before pursuing Gwen, eventually trapping her above a gorge. She pleads with Lawrence, whose consciousness recognizes her. As he hesitates, the hunters approach and the Wolfman turns to look at them. Gwen picks up the revolver and shoots him with a silver bullet. He reverts to Lawrence and dies. Aberline arrives with the hunters, but as he looks at the moon, he realizes his inevitable fate.

The Wolfmans howl is heard once more as Talbot Hall burns in the distance.

==Cast== Lawrence Talbot/The Wolfman
* Anthony Hopkins as Sir John Talbot
* Emily Blunt as Gwen Conliffe
* Hugo Weaving as Inspector Francis Aberline
* Geraldine Chaplin as Maleva
* Art Malik as Singh
* Antony Sher as Dr. Hoenneger David Schofield as Constable Nye
* David Sterne as Kirk
* Simon Merrells as Ben Talbot
* Cristina Contes as Solana Talbot Michael Cronin as Dr. Lloyd Nicholas Day as Colonel Montford
* Clive Russell as MacQueen
* Roger Frost as Reverend Fisk
 Rick Baker makes a cameo appearance as the Gypsy man who is the first killed.  The Wolfmans howl incorporated elements from rock singers Gene Simmons and David Lee Roth, as well as opera singers and animal impersonators.  Voice actor Frank Welker performed the roars and growls of the werewolves and the feral boy. 

==Production==
In March 2006,   design as much as possible.]]

In February 2007, director Mark Romanek was attached to helm The Wolfman.    In January 2008, Romanek left the project because of creative differences.    Brett Ratner emerged as a frontrunner to replace Romanek, but the studio also met with Frank Darabont, James Mangold and Joe Johnston. They were also interested in Bill Condon, and Martin Campbell was interested.  Johnston was hired to direct on 3 February 2008, and the films shooting schedule and budget remained as intended.  Johnston hired David Self to rewrite the script.   
 Chatsworth in Derbyshire and Castle Combe in Wiltshire.  They transformed Chatsworth House by adding weeds, dead grass and ivy.  They also shot in Lacock in Wiltshire, a village conserved by the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty, for a day. Universal donated Pound sterling|£5,000 to the village, in return for filming in the tithe barn for a scene involving frozen corpses.  A funeral scene was also shot beside the Temple of Ancient Virtue at Stowe House, with the temple coated in false ivy and copious amounts of smoke/mist floating over the setting. There was also scenes filmed on Dartmoor, Devon at Foggintor Quarry. Pick-up (filmmaking)|Pick-ups at Pinewood were conducted in May 2009. 

 , we went from this naked man to a four-legged hound from Hell, and we had a lot of room to go from the transformation and do a lot of really extreme things. Here we have Benicio del Toro, whos practically the Wolf Man already, to Benicio del Toro with more hair and bigger teeth."   

Baker and del Toro were adamant about the design resembling the make-up created by  ,  Universal Studios Florida added The Wolfman to the event. 

The cast and crew were back on location re-shooting the film in the grounds of the Old Royal Naval College and park in Greenwich over the weekends of 22-25 and 30–31 May 2009. The purpose of the re-shoots was to change the way one werewolf looked in the film. Previously, it stood on two legs, but now, he stands on four. Also, an action scene was added between "the Wolf Man and the Werewolf" according to Vic Armstrong. 

==Music==
  Alice in Wonderland feature film), the producers decided rather than to expand on his ideas with a new composer (a path that they would eventually take), to take a gamble and attempt a different composer, along with a completely different approach, which would include extensive re-shooting of scenes. The idea was to quicken the pace and strike a similar tone to the successful Underworld films, turning a slow-paced story into a much faster one. Paul Haslinger subsequently wrote an electronic contemporary incarnation of The Wolfman score, which the studio quickly realised was not appropriate for the late 19th-century Gothic setting. Elfmans score, which was previously recorded, is, as a result, the one that is used in the final film instead.  Elfmans original recording was used in the final film, however, some additional music composers (Conrad Pope, Edward Shearmur, and Thomas Lindgren) were brought in to shape Elfmans score to fit the final cut of the film, as well as compose new material for the film.
 Sleepy Hollow as an orchestrator and is a frequent collaborator with composer John Williams.

A similar situation formed for Elfmans Spider-Man 2, where the music in the final film stood mostly separate from the original work on the CD release, which reflected the first incarnation of the score. 

Danny Elfmans version of The Wolfman score was officially released on 23 February, 11 days after the films release. This is actually the original score Elfman made for the earlier cut of The Wolfman before it was temporarily rejected. A believed-to-be sample of Haslingers rejected score was released around the same time, but was ultimately confirmed a false sample by Film Score Monthly record producer Ford A. Thaxton and Haslinger himself. 

Dark ambient musician Lustmord mentions on his personal blog that he made "some sounds for the score".  However, he is not credited for his work on the film.

==Merchandising==
Several companies were involved in the merchandising of the film. Rubies Costumes is making both child and adult costumes. Because costumes are sold to retailers months in advance, the Halloween costumes came out in 2009 since the film being pushed back to 2010 happened after the costumes had been shipped to retailers. 

Mezco Toyz produced 7&nbsp;inch and 12&nbsp;inch tall Wolfman action figures.  They also produced replicas of the medallion from the film.  Museum of New York. 
 The Wolf Man film was re-released on DVD with Universals Legacy Series. It includes a scene early in the story which explains how Lawrence obtained the cane with a silver wolfs head (which features prominently in the original film but only sparingly in the remake), with Lawrence exchanging his ordinary wooden cane with an elderly Frenchman for the silver wolfs head cane on his initial trip to Blackmoor. It also has Gwen and her father owning an apothecary rather than an antiques shop, suggesting this was changed during the remakes development to be closer to the original film.

==Release==
During the course of its production, The Wolfman saw its release date postponed several times. Originally scheduled for a 12 November 2008 release,  it was first pushed back to 12 February 2009.  Then, in April 2008, it got moved to 3 April 2009.    In December 2008, Universal moved the release to 6 November 2009.   Finally, the film was moved yet again in late July 2009 to 12 February 2010.  The first trailer for The Wolfman was attached to Inglourious Basterds, which was released to cinemas on 21 August 2009. The film premiered in Rome on 27 January 2010.  In most European countries the film was released on 10 and 11 February 2010. 

===Box office===
The film grossed $19,850,000 on its opening day, and $31,479,235 in its opening weekend, coming in second at the box office after the film Valentines Day (2010 film)|Valentines Day.  The Wolfman eventually grossed $61,979,680 in North America, and a total of $139,789,765 worldwide, failing to recoup its $150 million budget.  In 2014, the LA Times listed the film as one of the most expensive box office flops of all time. 

===Reception===
  
The Wolfman has received a mixed critical reception. Review aggregate   based on 36 reviews, indicating mixed or average reviews. 

Film critic Roger Ebert gave the film two and a half stars out of four, praising the atmospheric locations and melodramatic scope but lamenting CGI effects that he regarded as detrimental.  
Peter Travers of Rolling Stone assigned the film one and a half stars out of four, concluding that "The Wolfman bites, but not — I think — in the way the filmmakers intended."  
Owen Glieberman of Entertainment Weekly praised Del Toros performance as Lawrence Talbot, comparing it favourably to Lon Chaney, Jr.s, in the 1941 film. 

Ronald Meyer, president of Universal Studios, regarded the film as "crappy" and considered it to be "One of the worst movies we ever made." 

===Awards=== best make-up. Rick Baker and Dave Elsey, received an Academy Award for Best Makeup for the 83rd Academy Awards. 

==Home media==
  
The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc in the US on June 1, 2010. Both editions include the theatrical version and an extended directors cut, which incorporates 17 minutes of footage back into the film.   
 
 the original 1941 film.

The U.S. DVD and Blu-ray releases earned a total of $27 million in sales.   

===Extended cut===
The DVD/Blu-ray releases include an "unrated directors cut", featuring an additional 17 minutes of footage and the inclusion of the classic 40s era Universal logo at the beginning of the film. 

Johnston said the reason for deleting the 17 minutes from the theatrical cut was "to push the story along so that audiences would get to the first Wolfman transformation sooner."    French province where in the 18th century villagers were attacked by an unknown beast known as the Beast of Gévaudan. Though Max von Sydows credit is absent from the theatrical cut, there is still a credit for "Assistant to Mr. von Sydow".

==Reboot== Chris Morgan attached to develop the structure of the shared universe.  In November 2014, Universal hired Aaron Guzikowski to write the shared universes reboot of The Wolf Man.  

==References==
 

==External links==
 
 
*  
*  
*  
*  

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 